[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: One of the
fields I delve into regularly
is revisionist history
of the human species,
from the work of Zecharia
Sitchin to Erich Von Daniken,
among several others.
This time, this unique
time in history now,
is offering us a
completely different view
of how humans originated
on this planet.
Paul Von Ward is continuing this
line of inquiry in his new book
"Children of a Living Universe."
His life experience as a
Reverend, Naval officer,
service in the Foreign Office,
along with a graduate degree
from Harvard and other
postgraduate degrees uniquely
positions him to ask the big
questions, along with the rigor
to do the research.
He's with us today.
And Paul, it's good
to see you again.
I think this is our
third time around--
>>VON WARD: I'm
delighted to be back.
>>REGINA: --so it
should be a charm.
>>WARD: That's good.
>>REGINA: And the
thing is, this isn't
where you started out in life.
We've talked about
highly esoteric subjects
in our past conversations,
but that's not
where you began your life.
Yet, here we are, so.
>>WARD: No.
My life began in
Northwest Florida
in a sharecroppers
farm, you know.
In a little community
of fundamentalists
and a small rural school.
And I started there
doing the normal things,
getting involved in the
church and being saved,
and then being tutored
as a youth minister
and being urged to move ahead as
a pastor of a church and so on.
And I started in that
direction, never thinking
about anything else
except theology.
But I have to, in retrospect,
confess that during that time
I was already
questioning some things.
I went to my minister
and said, I'm
going to be a missionary in
Africa when I get my ordination
and get going as a minister.
But I have a question for you.
What God would let all
of those people in Africa
die and go to hell for
eternity before I get there?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That was a question I was asking
as a little kid in the Lutheran
tradition of religion as well.
It made no sense.
>>WARD: It made no sense.
And so, I had this sort
of little box of questions
inside me that I
started to question.
And at Florida
State, where I was
in graduate school by that
time and had been ordained
in a small rural church, and
I was challenging the theology
of this fundamentalist
worldview.
And we had the great
fortune of having
Paul Tillich, one of the
great Protestant Christian
theologians of the
20th century, came
to spend a few days with us in
the philosophy and the religion
department.
And I was-- I had been
making-- every six months,
I would write a page
what I thought was God
and how it fit into the
picture of our reality.
And so I was explaining
that I had this and I said,
you have been talking about
God in such a different way,
how can you have such
a different definition?
And he said, you know, grey
hair, looking down on me,
you know, young man it's all
a question of your perception
and your definition.
>>REGINA: Mm-hm.
>>WARD: And that
was the moment that
really released my
mind to question.
I had had the imprimatur of
this great theologian who
could say that God and
the universe we're in,
is very different
from what I had--
>>REGINA: It's all a
matter of perception.
>>WARD: All the
And then, you know--
>>REGINA: Well, and
your life went on.
As they say-- What
was that saying?
You can't keep them down on the
farm once they've seen Paris.
I mean, you were off
around the world.
You were getting your graduate
and postgraduate degrees.
You were leading a
large life that gave you
a lot of contact with other
parts of civilization--
>>WARD: Yeah.
Other cultures.
>>REGINA: And other cultures.
And this is something
that I think also
must have had a very
strong impact on you
when it comes to the rigidity of
what you were taught as a child
compared to that statement,
it's all a matter of perception.
>>WARD: I was so
fortunate when I
left graduate
school-- and this was
in the early days of
the Vietnam period--
and became a Naval
officer, and I was actually
stationed in the United States.
And then, though, I was
picked up by the White House
and given an appointment to
be a diplomat in the Foreign
Service.
And my first post was
in Paris, but I had only
been there six months.
And so I was sent
off to Malaysia
as the member of the
advanced team of Lyndon
Johnson as president
going to Malaysia.
The first one who's ever
visited Malaysia until Obama,
50 years later, went
back to Malaysia.
But anyhow, I took advantage
of that because I went
to the conference there that
we had, and then I visited--
came back through India, through
Iran on my way back to Paris,
and I was just reaping--
>>REGINA: Were you
absorbing a lot
of the religious
cultures along the way?
>>WARD: I wondered,
why am I doing this?
But I had to stop in India
and meet some of the Hindus,
and go to some of the places
that would give me concepts.
It was almost an impulse.
I mean, it was not
intellectually developed.
I just had to go
to these places.
And then I had one
of my colleagues
in the Foreign Service
was in Tehran and said,
let's stop in Iran.
And I went there and the
first thing I asked to do,
I want to go to where
the Zoroastrians were.
And he said, really?
I said, yeah.
He said, but it's just
some ruins and places
where the oil comes out of
the ground itself and you had
this continual flame.
And so I went and
experienced that in not
an intellectual way, but some
kind of energetic feeling of,
you know, I feel some
connection to this place.
And I hadn't even really studied
Zoroastrianism very much,
but I had that sense.
And anyhow, I can go on and
on with this tale, but it--
>>REGINA: But this sounds
like a journey of the soul.
>>WARD: It's
something like that.
And as I've traveled
around the world,
I literally have visited 100
countries in about 30 years,
half of that in the Foreign
Service and half of it
with a nonprofit--
international nonprofit
that I founded in Washington DC.
So in those 100
countries, you know,
I was just-- every
place I would go,
I was supposed to
be studying politics
and international relations and
all the projects and the jobs
that I had were at
that political level.
But I was looking into the
culture and the culture
of their religions, of their
worldviews, their philosophies.
And so after about
30 years of that,
I had to let that go
and follow the research
that I had picked up all
of these clues about.
The different worldviews in
the world, the different belief
systems, and my
own personal sort
of correlating the behaviors of
cultures with their spiritual
and religious beliefs.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And so you-- as you were
picking up knowledge
from these different
cultures and belief systems,
essentially what you're
trying to do in this book
and what you are
doing, you start
out with the physics of the
universe itself up front.
That's the front
of the book, right?
It's like, let's get into it.
We're all the same stuff.
As above, so below, which
is a Hermetic Principle
and we're going to get
in that in a moment.
>>WARD: Exactly.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: But taking it back
down to the ground just a bit,
were you finding that there were
these large or missing gaps,
there were these gaps
in the stories when
it comes to human
creation throughout all
of the religions of the world
that you had been exposed to?
>>WARD: Well, the gaps were not
so much between what I now call
the Big Picture with these more
primitive, more traditional--
>>REGINA: Highly defined, yes.
>>WARD: --worldviews.
But compared to
modern Christianity,
that's where the gap was.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>WARD: Because in
the Western world,
in the Roman-- say picking
up Western civilization
with the Nicene Creed in 325 in
the current era, that period,
that was a very narrow
view of reality.
It was how do I say, book end.
By the time that Jesus
was allegedly here
to this point in time, it was a
very simplistic view of things.
You get here, you
have one shot at it.
You've got to make one
choice about the church
and you were going
to heaven and hell.
We are the only
beings on the planet.
We're the only beings
in the universe.
We are it.
And it is all controlled by this
anthropomorphic God figure, who
is playing with us all the time.
That was the model that I grew
up in, but all of this travel
and all of this contact
with other cultures--
>>REGINA: You were getting
much deeper historical--
>>WARD: Very different.
Thousands and thousands--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: -of years.
>>REGINA: And even the
Greco-Roman, in those times
they were influenced deeply
by the Egyptian times.
And even prior to
that, perhaps the-- we
could even say perhaps Atlantean
or other cultures prior to.
>>WARD: But see, at that time, I
didn't know any of that history
because no one
taught that history.
That's when I started going
back and looking into-- I
had the Hindu very ancient
text, been interested in that
ever since I had
first gone to India.
But then I began to look
into the Egyptian area
and that was coincident
with the Hindu traditions.
And it had another layer to it.
You just intimated that with
the Atlantean, because--
>>REGINA: Which most refer to
an ancient civilization that
preceded it where the ancient
traditions and knowledge were
passed down to them from.
Yes.
>>WARD: The Egyptians were
apparently one of the,
if not the most lucky of the
survivors after the cataclysm
about 11,500 years ago.
They had a lot of material
and artifacts and texts that
came from an earlier,
and we can use
the word Atlantean,
that's Greek--
>>REGINA: Well, that's the only
place you can really point to,
and that's what a lot of
research is pointing to now.
That it's not a
mythical lost continent,
it's a lost continent.
>>WARD: The only way to
interpret the ancient texts is
having some sort
of source for it
which preceded these cultures.
So anyhow, that's how I got
interested in these worldviews.
And picking up from the
Atlanteans, Egyptians,
the Greeks, the Romans with this
tradition of what we call today
the Hermetic Principles, Thoth,
who was really-- the Egyptians
alleged that he was
a ruler of Atlantis,
or Niter at that time,
not in Egypt itself.
But--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WARD: -that came down
through the Middle Ages,
and we finally have some of
those documents still with us.
>>REGINA: Isn't the tradition,
the Hermetic tradition,
based on the writings, the
teachings of Hermes, who also--
>>WARD: See, we don't
know about that.
>>REGINA: Supposedly an
extension from Thoth to Hermes.
>>WARD: To Thoth, and
Hermes is the Greek,
and then we bring that through.
But some people talk about
the Emerald Tablets and so on,
but what interested me was
those seven principles.
Because when I was
looking at the differences
in the different cultures about
the origin of Earth, humans,
the universe, the Hermetic
Principles made a lot of sense.
Because if you go
back to Genesis,
for example, where it
says, in the beginning
there was a voice that
said let there be light.
OK, now that's a very
interesting thing
in the world of
physics because we
don't know exactly how the
universe is put together yet.
Our physicists are really
getting on a edge of a cliff.
>>REGINA: You know,
I look at that
and that seems to
me to be there's
such an obvious gap there.
If you can't acknowledge the
existence of intelligence
or consciousness or awareness,
whichever word you want
to apply to it, in and of itself
as preexisting, so to speak,
how could you possibly account
for the rest of anything,
even just looking at a rose?
>>WARD: Absolutely, that we have
ancient scientific principles
that we cannot account for
in our modern civilization.
So one of the things that got
me motivated about this book
is a comparison of
that ancient wisdom
of the physics of the universe
with the standard model
of science that we've been
using for the last 500 years.
And when you put those together
and you look at the experiments
that we are doing in our
modern world of science
and the CERN Laboratory
in Switzerland
and another laboratory in
Italy where the researchers are
looking at the standard model
using electromagnetic pulses
with light trying to find that
smallest little particle that's
there.
>>REGINA: Beyond the boson.
>>WARD: And every-- well,
the boson and now we're
looking for the next one.
>>REGINA: Exactly, beyond.
>>WARD: And as I said to
someone earlier today,
we have this technology,
these huge machines,
and of course we're
going to get something
because it's going
to produce something.
But the fact that
we get the boson
or we get that next question
mark smaller particle,
it's going to be an
artifact of our technology.
It says nothing about
what else is out there.
So I'd say in the
last six months,
starting with Steven Hawking
about six months ago talking
about black holes, and he
said about 40 years ago
the black holes are going
to pull in this mass
from all over the universe
and it will chew it up
and it'll just disappear.
And it no--
>>REGINA: Frightened everyone.
>>WARD: Frightened everyone.
And then 40 years later, he has
said, well, now wait a minute.
If it's destructed
in the black hole,
then it has to go somewhere.
And, you know, that's his
puzzle now at this point.
And then another week--
well, a month or two later,
I heard an interview of
Roger Penrose talking
about this same problem
and he was telling
the interviewer when he
got the question, well,
if your standard
model is incomplete,
what would it take
to make it complete?
And so Roger-- it
was very interesting
because he's very
straightforward--
and he said, well, you know,
it has to be a new model.
>>REGINA: A new model.
>>WARD: A new model.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: And this
is the first time
I've heard such a public
figure to say that.
>>REGINA: Make such a
bold statement, yes.
>>WARD: And now since then,
and I think people like me
and others who like to look
at the "Scientific American"
every month, the last
couple of three issues
have articles on this problem.
One is in the CERN Laboratory.
What if you don't find the
next one after the boson?
It doesn't complete
the model, and that's
when you've got to
have a bigger picture.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WARD: But then--
>>REGINA: That's when
you need your new model.
>>WARD: And then
just this month,
a wonderful article having
the same ending to it,
that these are physicists,
a couple of them
and their team who've been
working together for I
think it's now about 15 years,
using the technology that we
have to find how we
go beyond a boundary.
You know, the universe is
filled with boundaries.
In other words, there's
a physical boundary.
There's the electromagnetic.
There's the light.
There's the-- every aspect, it
has its own feel about itself.
So anyhow, they worked for
15 years on this project
to find using the
electromagnetic field on light
to see what they can do with
muons and other particles,
and they are-- they failed.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And at this reminds me, it's
popping back into my mind.
I was doing an interview
in Germany in the mid '80s,
toward the late '80s, '87,
'88, somewhere in there,
with a physicist
named Wolfgang Ludwig.
I mention him in
one other interview
because another young physicist
also knows of his work.
And I remember, at the time,
he was talking about illness.
And he'd invented a device that
was a phase soft laser that
put the information
of, it was light,
color, sound,
crystalline energies
and such into the acupuncture
meridians of the body.
And he excitedly
told me, he says,
what they don't understand is
yes, you have so many bosons,
but it's the space
between the bosons that
is what matters here.
And I remember him
saying, they don't
understand it's
the space between.
That's where the intelligence
exists that guides the boson.
He said bosons, but yes.
>>WARD: But you've just brought
it to the point of this book,
because what we're talking about
is that the universe should
be looked at from
the other direction.
And that other direction is
information in the space.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: What is that?
That is the consciousness.
And so if you go back then
to the Hermetic Principles
that we talked about before--
>>REGINA: And let's do that.
As above, so below, and
let's talk about that.
>>WARD: As above, so below.
So what we're saying is
that if you have the matter,
and we know everything
in the physical realm
is on a spectrum, and
then anything that's
in the energetic
spectrum, if you look
at the electromagnetic scale
from very low to very high,
so you have this spectrum.
This is one of the Hermetic
Principles as you said.
As above, so below.
So you look then into
the area of information.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: And information
then is abstract,
and then brought down to
concrete concepts and words
that we use.
Why do we use these words?
To make a voice.
And the voice of the universe,
it's the song of the spheres
and all of those
kind of concepts--
>>REGINA: Are parts of
principles of creation.
>>WARD: Yeah.
And the notion of just
an intent, and this
goes back to Plato remember.
He said what is there
first is the idea.
And so if you begin to
look at the universe
as an idea going
for information,
then you go into the virtual
particle level, which you then
have further condensation--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: -more and more to
the heavy atoms that we have.
And this is then the universe.
And it is a ballooning--
>>REGINA: Mm-hm.
>>WARD: -it's like a balloon.
And what we've done
in our standard model
is that it was one point
and it goes out like a cone.
If you look at all the aids
that are used in physics books
today and on the internet
and television and so on,
you have this cone.
Well, what we're understanding
at the lower level
that we're talking about
the research in Italy
and Switzerland, you have
the concept of inflations.
So inflation is then--
it starts at a point
and then expands that way.
So our universe is
being misrepresented
by this cone model.
It's really a balloon or some
sort of structure which is not
a perfect ball,
but it is a balloon
built around the structure.
The structure is the boundaries
of all these different spheres.
And it makes a lot more sense
in terms of thinking about life,
the building of a solar
system, of a galaxy,
all of these boundaries have
this intent, the information,
and then it exposes
itself, expresses itself
in the physical realm.
>>REGINA: But that requires
moving beyond the material
sciences.
>>WARD: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: And it doesn't
matter how sophisticated
and how many billions
of dollars they're
spending on accelerators
and so forth, you
have to move beyond
the material sciences
to be able to find that
finite bit of information.
>>WARD: But these
scientists that I referred
to a little earlier, they
are actually getting,
I think, to the precipice.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: -because they're--
>>REGINA: That is so exciting.
>>WARD: And I wish I would
have 50 years more to go
than maybe a couple
of decades more.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Absolutely.
And this is what you're saying.
We have to be able to now
bring in ancient philosophy,
ancient traditions,
lore, and understanding,
along with philosophy.
And even beyond that, cosmology,
into our understanding as
we start constructing,
academically
constructing not only the
universe, but this species
and other species
in our solar system.
>>WARD: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Without that,
you're saying, we can't do it.
It's not possible.
Now, as you say, they bump
up against their limits.
Material sciences cannot
answer those questions.
>>WARD: That's why we are very
lucky to have these ancients'
concepts, because
that's going to give us
the foundation for a new model.
And that's what I'm trying to
do is to just show that as you
know, obviously,
scientists are not
going to grab it and
embrace it totally.
But what I would like
to have people do
is at least to look
at the possibility
and to say let us
change our experiments
in a different direction.
Let's start with
the idea, and then
go exploring on
the physical world
rather than taking your
a priori machinery--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>WARD: -to smash
pieces of the world.
>>REGINA: Still looking for
the answers in those pieces,
in the material aspects
of those pieces.
>>WARD: Right.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: OK, so along through
this journey and in the book,
you go into all of this.
The background of
the quantum physics
and so forth and the
universe as being
born from fields of information
vis-a-vis Hermetic Principles
and such.
But you also introduce the
notion of advanced beings.
That advanced beings have
helped guide in the process.
And you speak of Thoth,
Yahweh, also Atlas
as being perhaps some of
these advanced beings that
had introduced this knowledge
for purpose throughout history.
So let's talk about that.
>>WARD: Well, one
of the, I think,
most significant set
of clues that there
are other more advanced beings
than humans in this universe
is that those ancient principles
and laws and knowledge that we
get from the early Hindus,
the Egyptians, Atlanteans,
et cetera, those
levels of knowledge
that we are testing out
and validating today
had to come from
very advanced minds.
>>REGINA: It's because they're
so precise and complete
in their understanding.
Nothing like what
we have even today.
>>WARD: Yeah.
It's much more an integral
model of the universe,
and we are just doing
little slices at it.
So that suggests
then that we are not
the unique beings on
the universe plane.
I mean, it's silly to think
about it in those terms.
But when you have
that sort of evidence
that we can validate
that they were there
because we have
the artifacts, we
have the information
that's there
that is now being validated in
science, so they must have come
from somewhere else because we
don't have a history of them
growing up on this
planet because they're
own narratives suggest that
they came from someplace else.
And the humans who
were here physically
saw them coming
from someplace else.
So we're probably
kindergarten level
of beings on other
planets, and maybe even
in sort of middle dimensions
between this pure level
of consciousness and the
physical bodies that we have
and that a lot of the more
advanced beings had as well.
There are also, I think,
examples of beings that are not
quite three-dimensional--
>>REGINA: But are existing
in sub-dimensional fields,
for example.
>>WARD: Sub-dimensional.
I mean, they're sort of-- we
might say as above, so below.
They are like the virtual
particles in our physics model,
because they are in a
different dimension--
>>REGINA: Dimensional state.
>>WARD: -in terms of travelling,
in terms of their ability.
>>REGINA: Which
is not to indicate
they don't have
physicality, they just
don't have physicality
within our ability to sense.
And for our
instrumentation as it
is developed at
this point in time.
>>WARD: Exactly.
Sure, yeah.
>>REGINA: They have their
own physical realities.
>>WARD: I'm glad you say that
because I think we need to keep
in mind when we talk about our
science and our mechanisms that
we use, they are mechanisms that
we have developed and they are
limited by our own concepts--
>>REGINA: Abilities to perceive.
>>WARD: -that we have.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Absolutely.
I mean whether it's through
technology or personally,
we can probably
perceive more personally
if we open to it than
technology can, certainly.
>>WARD: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: OK, so
taking that in mind,
so we have gone through
the fact that we're
looking at the consciousness.
Consciousness is
the missing element
that they're not going
to find through CERN
or any other device out there.
That's not going to happen.
>>WARD: It's not
going to happen.
>>REGINA: OK, so now let's add
consciousness to the equation.
Now we add advanced beings
who've come to this planet
and been here probably
before we have.
I mean, arguably,
they've always been here.
>>WARD: Yeah.
Evidence at least a quarter
of a billion years possibly.
>>REGINA: And you say we need
to be looking at the creation
story so to speak.
I mean, I'm just calling
it a creation story.
The emergence of
the human species
where we won't speak
of other species,
just the human
species at this time,
needs to be reflected
back in a new way.
We need a new story.
So what does that story
look like now for you?
How would you tell
this story to us?
>>WARD: Well, I think the story
is that we in this universe
are a product of, or a child
of a multiverse, an omniverse,
or a re-incarnating universe
because, as our friend
Stephen Hawking now
has accepted that there
had to be something
before something.
And so what we have
is our universe
came either in a rebirth or
was an inflation of an idea
that more powerful
consciousness used
the mechanisms of consciousness
manifesting itself
in physical form.
So this is where we--
we're part of that.
>>REGINA: So are you
saying that the universe,
beyond normal anabolic,
catabolic function of birth
and destruction,
itself reincarnates
as well with its own guiding
intelligence, as you might say,
a soul would reincarnate
through a physical body?
>>WARD: Yeah.
Obviously, we don't
have any proof of that.
But it makes sense that
if this to and fro,
in and out of the quantum
field that we're now
playing with in
physics is expanded
to the level of
our universe, then
it did come with design
structures, ideas
that then are
manifesting themselves.
And that we, as physical
beings and others
in the universe
with us, are then
intentions of this
conscious universe,
which means that we are
children of this universe
and we are expressing
the possibilities--
>>REGINA: We're an
aspect of consciousness.
Yes.
>>WARD: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: But that we, as
humans, obviously we're
not the whole ball game.
But maybe we are on
second base or something.
We're doing our
part of the game,
and I use terms like
self-learning, self-evolving,
self-actualizing beings so that
we are a part of that beginning
impulse of completing
an action that
is going to be the best we
can create in this multiverse
that we are part of.
>>REGINA: And you
also make the point
of saying, yet, no lower and
no higher than anything else
that is self-actualizing
within the universe.
Because one thing
that's happened
is we-- whether it's
at the hand of religion
where you're taught to kneel
and to be subservient to,
or whether it's at the hand of
an ancient society of some kind
or whatnot, this whole notion
of humans being subservient to
has been an issue for us.
It's been a deep
psychological wound
that we somehow feel less than
because of the presence of what
were, have been,
are advanced beings
from advanced civilizations,
whether it's inter-dimensional
or who've come here
in their vehicles.
>>WARD: Well, I think that
we humans, which I'm not sure
that we could even say we humans
as an independent species.
We are likely to
be sort of half--
>>REGINA: A little
engineered here and there.
Yeah.
I agree with you.
>>WARD: Well, or half
siblings of other--
>>REGINA: Absolutley.
>>WARD: -people
on other planets.
But what we've got
here is we humans
that are in control of
our institutions today
have a worldview which is very
different from the one we're
describing in this
little discussion.
And that is what is
the set of blinders
on the positive constructive
evolution of humans
on this planet, as
far as I'm concerned.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: Because we
are limiting ourselves
by misinterpretating the
myths of ancient history.
Those myths are really
the narratives of history,
and we've sort of taken those
words and the stories of beings
from the sky and interaction
between humans and other beings
and all of those tales,
those are narratives
and we need to incorporate
them into our modern narrative.
And religions and
science both are
loath to consider
that possibility.
So what's happening,
I think, when I first
started thinking in these
terms 25 or 30 years ago,
I was really
despondent, you know,
that you have to teach
the people who are here
how to open their eyes
and expand their concepts
and understandings.
But I think the way it
works now is most of it that
is in change from the
traditional to this new living
universe concept is
generation by generation.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: And we're trying to
build a foundation of research
and concepts and books
and films and so on
that younger generations
are getting it.
>>REGINA: They are getting it.
>>WARD: They're understanding
that things are possible.
>>REGINA: Oh, I've interviewed
a couple of young physicists
that are-- they totally get it.
I mean, you don't have
to explain a thing.
They already figured it out
and they're on to the next.
>>WARD: Well, that
is happening and I've
had the experience now
in the last few years
to be at a conference and
talking and selling my books
or something, and people
who come up-- 20 years ago,
it was somebody who didn't have
much of an academic career.
And here are the professors
from universities saying,
well, I'm in
anthropology but I have
this interest in what
you're writing about.
>>REGINA: No.
I mean, that's wonderful.
This is a very
encouraging conversation.
>>WARD: And it's just
beginning to happen.
And I--
>>REGINA: It is.
>>WARD: -feel that we
are making some progress.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
But going back to the point
you were making a moment ago,
to open up to a new
cosmology, to open up
to beyond religious
doctrine to the notion
that we are part of something,
we're perhaps partially seeded,
we can be genetically
partially spliced with,
whatever you want to call it,
other beings from other places,
that we're an evolving creation.
And just as we
create, they're have
been a hand in all creations--
>>WARD: Right.
>>REGINA: -but without the
mass inferiority complex.
I mean, this is something
you wrote about in the book
that I found interesting.
And I'm going to get
into a couple specifics.
Just like the notion of bowing
before or kneeling before,
and you do address this saying
that these traditions may have
been passed on by way
of our interactions,
historically, with beings
of a more advanced nature.
>>WARD: Well, I think
that we-- you know,
it's like when I was
a freshman in college
and the professors
were there and I
had to genuflect the professor.
And we had that, I think,
early in human history
where you had more advanced
beings and they had the power.
And it's also like
the European countries
that colonized the more
primitive societies
within the last
few hundred years.
So the same sort
of thing happened
with more advanced
beings with humans.
And I think what
they did is they
became subjugated
psychologically.
They became worshipful.
They were dependent on
these more advanced beings.
And it just started what I would
call a personality syndrome
of deference and looking
elsewhere for the answers
rather than from
your own experiences.
>>REGINA: And arrogance on
the part of the colonialists.
>>WARD: Well, very much
arrogance there, too.
But I think that
some of that happened
by more intelligent
humans, who actually
used that psychological
dependence
syndrome to manipulate
the cult members
during the cults of the gods.
And then when religions
were more institutionalized,
you used that same dependence,
that psychological--
>>REGINA: Control.
>>WARD: -control, manipulation.
And when it didn't work
psychologically and
intellectually, the
religions used force.
The Christians
slaughtered all kinds
of people, the Inquisitions,
torture, burning people
at the stake.
We've grown out of most
of that, but the mentality
is still there.
And then you look into
other religions still now
are doing exactly the same
thing to control their masses,
and they don't want to
talk about the living
universe, the bigger universe
that we are parts of that.
And we are all, as individuals,
are our own little boundary.
Now we're interlaced with
one another in physical terms
and in consciousness terms,
as in energetic terms.
We've got a lot of research
about how we're connected--
>>REGINA: Yes, we do.
>>WARD: -with our-- that's
just so obvious now,
that we are connected in
these different dimensions.
But you have to look at
yourself, then though,
as direct to whatever
that original intent is.
That is each of us--
>>REGINA: And a direct
reflection of it.
>>WARD: And a reflection of it.
But we can be in our
lower level here,
if you want to use that term.
On planet Earth, we do get
interactions in our own species
and in our own cultures, and
we have some stronger people
who manipulate.
And so what we have
to do is to also take
the bigger picture
of the cosmology,
but we've also got to
change our model of culture.
That it's not hierarchical.
>>REGINA: But that's really why
you wrote the book, isn't it?
>>WARD: That's right.
>>REGINA: The point
is that we are
direct-- we're in a
direct lineage of all
of this creative force.
We're part of it.
We are creating ourselves
on a daily basis.
But if you don't understand
the nature of what you are,
it's very rare
that a person will
try to buck against it
if you don't understand
the nature of what you are.
>>WARD: No, that's
exactly right.
>>REGINA: You're going to live
within all those little boxes
and boundaries.
>>WARD: Well, we've had
a lot of inculcation
of these traditional
concepts of dependence
on some anthropomorphic figure.
And that is another
area that I think
is very interesting in this
new model of consciousness.
Because we're having now some
progress in neuroscience.
We don't know where
consciousness comes from
and we don't know how our
mind actually comes together.
But we are beginning to
learn that our consciousness,
whatever that source is,
works through our brain
physical networks, the amygdala
and the prefrontal cortex.
>>REGINA: The mind operates
outside of the brain
and uses it as a
processing unit.
>>WARD: But it
does go through it,
and therefore, you can connect
these ideas with your emotions.
And this is what happens
at the amygdala level
so that when we go through
this process of conditioning,
of teaching by elders,
by wise people, in quote,
people are then not in
control of their own singular
consciousness because
you've got to go
through this emotional,
physical set of networks.
And so that-- you can't
just have a wand and say
we will clear those thoughts.
You don't need them any more.
>>REGINA: No, this is very,
very ancient programming.
>>WARD: It is very--
>>REGINA: And we're
quite a complex--
>>WARD: -deep.
>>REGINA: -matrix
of subtle bodies
with the emotional
and the mental
and so forth, and physical.
And having to break through
all of that one time,
you have to create
new neural networks.
It all has to be
repatterned, but it all
starts with one
little seed and that's
why I like what
you've done here.
Because this subject gives
you a new understanding
of what you are, what
you've come from,
what your capability is as a
creator within the universe.
>>WARD: I think the book and
research, not only myself
but others who are
working in this area,
it is a strong set of
stimuli to decondition
this limited worldview
that we are trapped
in both by science and religion.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: And so, we need to
think about it in those terms.
This is an anecdote.
>>REGINA: Mind the
gap, as they say.
Mind the gap.
It's in the gap, just like
information is in the spaces--
>>WARD: That's right.
>>REGINA: -between the bosons.
That's right.
>>REGINA: OK, do you think
that we're coming to a point
where the term junk DNA is
going to be basically scrapped?
>>WARD: Well, I don't know,
because I have a thought
that it is used
by consciousness.
And I think the--
>>REGINA: Explain that.
The term junk DNA is
used by consciousness?
>>WARD: Junk-- we called
it junk the first time
because we had no purpose.
And we now know that
some of that quote,
"junk," actually has functions
in the expression of the DNA.
And so my little model
is that consciousness
works through the whole
integral physical body.
And that our
consciousness that is
beyond this, it seems
to me can, with whatever
the energetic signals are
that stimulate the expression
of our DNA, I think it
can work in that whole--
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's what I'm getting
to is it seems to me
that that aspect of
the non-physical aspect
of ourselves has to be working
through the physical vehicle
through more subtle
mechanisms with the DNA that
is called junk DNA.
It doesn't have maybe its
obvious physical purpose
that they've been
able to identify,
but it is expressing itself.
>>WARD: Yeah.
OK, that's right.
In other words, I look at it
as the medium through which--
>>REGINA: Yes, exactly.
I think we're saying
the same thing.
>>WARD: Yeah, I
think that's right.
I see it as sort of-- I
talked about the boundary,
the boundary of consciousness
that is after death,
near death, between
incarnations, whatever position
that consciousness that
is there, the boundary.
And when I use the word
boundary, it's not impermeable.
It's permeable, but at
least-- this is my hand.
It has a boundary, but it can
get interlaced with another.
And I think this
is the kind of way
we've got to think about
consciousness interlacing--
>>REGINA: With DNA.
And our DNA and the
intelligence lacing
with the DNA of everything
external as well.
>>WARD: Absolutely.
That's right.
>>REGINA: That's
why I was thinking,
I mean, surely, hopefully
in the next 20 years
or so, they won't be making
that silly little statement
about 95% of it being
junk DNA any longer.
>>WARD: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: OK, let's talk about
a little bit of the phenomena--
we still have about
10 minutes left--
and the work of Javier Cabrera,
because you mentioned him
quite a bit in your book.
Let's talk about some of
the physical phenomena.
I love the subject
of phenomena--
>>WARD: Well, I
>>REGINA: -that is indicating
something else is going on
around here.
>>WARD: Well, that's right.
Well, I talked a
lot about Cabrera
because I spent some time down
in Peru some years ago now.
And I went to his
museum where he
had all of these objects that
had strange features and so on,
but they were
thousands of years old.
And I think that's been pretty
well validated at this point.
When I first visited him,
there was all this controversy
that he's doing this himself
and creating these and trying
to make up--
>>REGINA: Oh, no.
Some of this stuff you
can't machine today.
You can't get these iridescent
light-filled qualities
of these objects even.
We don't know how to do it yet.
But this guy did
all this on his own?
>>WARD: So anyhow, no, I think
that in terms of phenomena that
we-- and this gets us
into a whole other realm,
because a lot of the what I call
ABs, or aliens, or ETs, or--
>>REGINA: Advanced Beings.
>>WARD: -phenomenon,
whatever, you
know this is where we see
these virtual particles that we
were talking about earlier.
The physicist saying, I found
a virtual particle of this muon
here.
The virtual particle
of a full being
could be in a variety of stages
of physical condensation.
And I think that-- and this is
really getting sort of weird,
I mean, it may be that this
phenomena can merge literally
with our own physical selves.
And I've talked to
a number of people
who have sensed that experience.
I mean, their experience is that
they were taken over or filled
with another entity
of some sort.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WARD: So I think that's an
example of you getting out
of the physical, you
get out of the energy,
you get into the quantum
area and the material realm.
Then you get into
this energy form,
and you get in this condensation
of conscious, I don't know.
You'd call them
sort of expressions.
It's like some of
the elders have
done in our aboriginal cultures.
You know, where I
will give you a hex
and that phenomenon will go to
you and do whatever he or it--
>>REGINA: It's a very
real phenomena, yes.
>>WARD: And so, this is another
aspect of this universe here.
And we need to
encompass all of that,
it seems to me,
in this new model.
>>REGINA: I agree.
And I have another
question to ask you,
and that has to do with you also
in your past-life experiments--
last time we got
together, we were talking
about past-life
experiments and you
have a pretty strong-- you've
studied your own incarnation
path and have a pretty
strong inclination
that you were among
some gentleman that
were in this country
at its earliest ages
of formation in
this young country.
A group of gentleman
that were also
steeped in a lot of the
ancient esoteric wisdoms,
including Hermeticism, and
so have you come to a feeling
that perhaps in this
incarnation, like you said,
you were studying
one thing but you
asked questions
and had an inkling.
Something else was
scratching there,
itching at the
back of the brain.
By way of curiosity,
do you think
that you may have
brought through knowledge
from another era, questions
from that other era
where these gentlemen had
high esoteric knowledge?
>>WARD: I usually talk about
things in the abstract.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I know.
>>WARD: This is a little bit--
>>REGINA: I'm putting you on
the spot just a little bit.
>>WARD: Well, no,
and I do want to say
that I do believe that
the research that I've
done on a lot of
cases and on my own,
I'm very much convinced that
we have this soul genome
or whatever word you want to
use, psychoplasm, that does
go from generation to generation
and maybe shares itself
in different incarnations
at the same time.
That's something
else that I'm looking
into at this point in time.
>>REGINA: Paralell realities.
Yeah.
>>WARD: But, yeah, I
think when we started off,
I talked about a young boy
asking these questions.
>>REGINA: I'm just
saying was there a soul
imprint from that
older gentleman
long ago that was curious
about similar such things that
might be driving a
lot of this in you?
In all of us?
>>WARD: I think so, because
where would these ideas come
from in my age, 15
years old or 18 years?
I think that I have
been incarnated
in a soul that has
a trajectory that
has been very
active in religions,
in philosophy, and in
science and cosmology.
Doesn't mean that I've done
all of that all the time.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WARD: But I think there is a
core sense of one's own essence
and its expression that ought
to flourish in a lifetime.
And I think this
kind of work coming
in the second half of
my life, flourishing
and adding to, I
think, experiences.
>>REGINA: Yes, and I
asked that because I
think it's true of all of us.
I don't see anything as born
of just this moment only,
It's all imprinted with
some kind of desire.
The people that are joining us
right now and watching this,
they have their own
imprint that has taken them
down this path of
inquiry as well.
And these are
cycles, but it's just
coming to a point
of maturation now
where the masses
have access to it.
Not like when you
were back then and it
was all hidden knowledge
and secreted away
from the masses who were busy
farming and doing other things
and had their own interests.
Now we all have access
to this potential
for expanding our understanding
of the universe and ourselves.
>>WARD: And I think
that in this lifetime
the notion of this
model is that we
are to evolve in a more
self-actualizing way, adding
to those past lifetimes
and those experiences.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
So going from a Reverend
preaching a rather narrow
message once upon a
time to now, that's big.
But it sounds to me
like human sovereignty
and the encouragement of human
sovereignty is your main goal.
>>WARD: It is
possible to rise out
of the moment and the
physical place and situation
that you are born into,
and you have this potential
that you need to
express in a lifetime,
and that's the goal it
seems to me, for all of us.
>>REGINA: Couldn't agree more.
And once again, thank you so
much, Paul, for joining us
and for writing this book.
You've done a beautiful
job on your research there.
>>WARD: Thank you, very much.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
Again, the book, "Children
of a Living Universe,"
which you can buy through
online booksellers.
To go deeper into some
of Paul's other work,
you can dive into our Gaiam TV
archives under "Open Minds,"
and also our "Conscious Media
Network" archives as, again, we
said this is our
third interview.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]